hi everyone thanks for joining me today
so today we're going to work on a neck
and shoulder releasing sequence um it's
quite short it'll only be about 10
minutes and you can do this either
sitting on a mat or if you're in your
office or you prefer to sit on a chair
please feel free to grab a chair um so
let's just start in our comfortable
seated position resting the hands
lightly on the thighs and just close
down your
eyes just taking the first few moments
just to draw your attention
inwards starting to focus on your
breath taking a few slow deep
breaths just slightly scanning through
the body just notice if you're holding
tension
anywhere let's see if you can just
soften into that part of the body
particularly on the
exhale feeling some length through your
spine all the way up through the lower
back middle back upper back through the
neck and right up through the crown of
the
head
and then let's Open the
Eyes bring the arms down by your side
and we'll just start by circling the
shoulders forward and
back so nice big
circles and notice how your shoulders
are
feeling for a lot of us they can feel
just a little bit crunchy we tend to
hold a lot of stress in our
shoulders and keep your breath going
here as as well and let's change
direction so going just back and
forward just a few more like this try to
Breathe Into Your Shoulder
area and then let's bring the tips of
the fingers to the shoulders bring the
elbows together and then try to touch
the wrist behind the neck and then
Circle the elbows back so elbows and
wrists
elbows and wrists good and just continue
here so now we're trying to make some
really big circles with the
elbows just getting that
shoulder nice and loose just three more
in this direction
2 and one and just change direction so
we'll try to touch the wrist behind the
head
elbows wrists elbows and
again keep lifting up through your lower
back here so we want to try to avoid
slumping into the lower back let's do
three more
three
2 and one release the arms down by your
side let's take an inhale to lift the
shoulders up as high as you can towards
the ears so keep lifting lifting lifting
inhale and then exhale release it down
two more times just like that take an
inhale lift lift keep lifting and exhale
release and we'll do that one more time
inhale and then exhale letting it all go
good so if you are sitting on the mat
let's just bring your right leg in front
of the left yep and from here inhale to
reach the arms up bring the right arm in
front of the left turn the Palms to face
each other and then into Rel the fingers
take an inhale reach the arms up and
just hold it here so you're trying to
straighten your arms trying to press the
upper arms alongside the side of the
head and if you can't do this if it's
really stressing out the shoulders or
you feel like your rib cage is over uh
coming out just bring the arms slightly
in front of the head that's totally
fine and then let's take an inhale reach
the arms up and then exhale Bend those
elbows pressing the elbows back and then
inhale reach the arms up and then exhale
drop the shoulders away from the ears as
you do this inhale reach the arms up and
then exhale Bend let's just hold it here
for a couple of breaths you can either
be looking at the screen or you can gaze
towards the tip of the nose if you want
a point of
focus nice steady breath
here and then let's take an inhale reach
those arms back up try to straighten the
arms and then exhale to twist to your
right let the head go just a little bit
further keep straightening those
arms and then take another inhale reach
up through the waist and then keep the
twist we're going to just exhale release
the hands so the back of your left hand
comes to the outside of the right thigh
and then just take the twist a little
bit further to your
right just allow the left shoulder to
drop away from the left
ear take another inhale lengthen up
through the lower back and then exhale
increase the twist now we're going to
keep the twist just turn the head to
look back to
Center and from here drop your left ear
down to the left shoulder and drop the
left shoulder away from the ear as well
and then you can close your eyes here
just notice
how that right side neck is feeling and
breathe into
it now we're going to just change the
angle of the head slightly so turn your
head to look down towards your left
armpit or you could just experiment
notice where you want to take the
stretch just finding a spot that you
need to work on
today and then inhale come back up to
Center and then just Release Yourself
back back to the front take an inhale
lengthen up through both sides of the
waist and then exhale walk your hands
forward coming down just to where you
can relaxing the belly down towards the
legs and if you if it's possible bring
the forehead down to the to the mat to
the
floor and then take an inhale to walk
the hands back
up so let's bring your right hand down
just give yourself a bit of space from
your waist as well and then extend your
left arm over either stay on the hand or
come all the way down to the the forearm
so if you are on a chair just hold the
side of the chair you don't have to come
into a very deep side Bend just hold it
here keep pressing down through your
left sit
bone and if your neck's okay turn the
head to look up towards the ceiling keep
reaching out through the left
fingertips and then let's turn the head
to look back to Center and from here
keep the body where it is but bring that
left hand back down and then let the
head just relax and imagine someone's
pulling you up and you just let the Head
trail behind as you come back up and
then drop the left ear down to the left
shoulder and then bring your left hand
up and over just resting just behind the
ear or just over the top of the ear
don't pull the head down just let the
weight of the hand relax over the ear
and then point your right hand away turn
the Palm to Face Forward we're going to
do some little golf ball size circles
here so we're just moving the stretch
into different parts of that shoulder
area and then let's change
direction and then bring the hand behind
the back your right hand behind the back
and then from here we're just going to
do a PNF stretch so we're going to press
into the hand but with the head but
resist so just press into the hand for
three 2 one and then let it relax we're
going to do that two more times pressing
three 2 one and then relax one more time
pressing three 2 one and then relax and
then let's release that Top Hand release
the head and release the arm good just
give the shoulders a bit of a roll out
swap the legs around if you're seated
and we're going to go to the other side
so you've got your left leg in front
relax the arms down take an inhale reach
the arms up left hand in front of the
right turn the Palms to face each other
interlace the fingers and let's reach
those arms up alongside the ears just
take a couple of breaths
here trying to soften those floating
ribs back in towards the
spine take one more inhale lengthen up
and then exhale to bend those
elbows inhale reach the arms up and then
exhale to
bend and again inhale reach it up and
exhale Bend and let's just hold it here
in this bent position trying to drop the
shoulder blades down hugging against the
upper back but keep pressing the elbows
back and then inhale to reach the arms
back up and we're going to Exhale twist
to the left let the head go a little bit
further keep reaching those arms up keep
straightening those
arms one more inhale try to lengthen up
and then exhale keep the Twist and let's
release the hands back of the the right
hand to the outside of that left thigh
and just turn the head to look a little
bit further over the left
shoulder now keeping the twist let's
just turn the head to look back to
Center and then drop your right ear down
to your right
shoulder continue looking straight
ahead
noticing how your left side neck is
feeling one side might be a little bit
tighter than the other just be mindful
of
that and then let's just change the
angle of the head so we're going to turn
our head to look down towards the right
armpit or remember that you could just
experiment and just feel where you would
like to rest rest your
head last couple of
breaths and then inhale come back up to
Center and then let's release the body
back to Center take an inhale lengthen
up and exhale walk your hands forward
just to where you
can try to press down through the entire
palm of the
hand and inhaling to walk your hands
back up bringing your left hand down and
once again reaching your right arm over
either staying on the hand or coming all
the way down to the forearm extending
out through that right arm try to
lengthen out through the fingertips and
press down through your right sit bone
relax the shoulders away from the ears
and then either stay here or you can
turn your head to look up keeping the
chin just very gently drawn in just so
we're not getting a funny angle on the
head and then turn the hch look back to
Center keeping the body where it is
let's bring that right arm down let the
head relax down and then just let it
trail behind as you come up and then
drop your right ear down to your right
shoulder bring your right hand over the
head either onto the ear or just behind
the ear and point your left hand away
turn the Palm to face up and drop your
right shoulder away from the right ear
as well and then little golf ball size
circles
here and then let's change
direction and then let's bring the right
arm or sorry your left arm behind your
back and once again we're going to go
for our P NE stretch so we're going to
press into the hand with the head but
resist for three 2 one and then let it
relax two more times pressing three 2
one and let it relax just one more time
pressing three 2 one and relax and then
let's release that AR a top arm release
the back arm give the shoulders a few
circles
out take one deep breath in through the
nose and and then out through the
mouth so that's all we've got today so
enjoy the rest of your day or evening
and I'll see you next time
namaste